Mustafa Altıoklar is a filmmaker who fled Turkey because he had protested against the ruling party.
He has been living in Berlin since 2015.
His colleague and fellow protester Şebnem Sönmez is visiting him.
At first they wanted to put buildings here.
But the people were against it, they didn’t let it happen.
When the airport was closed 10 years ago,
they wanted to build a lot.
Ah, I see.
Things like shopping centres and town houses.
That was the plan,
but civil society...
... didn’t allow that to happen?
- Exactly.
Bravo!
Imagine a place like this in Istanbul.
They would just build skyskrapers here,
nothing else.
Does nature even exist there anymore?
It’s terrible what you went through in Gezi Park.
But it did a lot of good for us as well.
Of course.
Even though it damaged us,
it is good that we were part of it.
It really led to people from all over the country
being inspired by the issue
and shouting the slogan: Everywhere is Taksim!
Everywhere is resistance!
Is that Çarşı?
Çarşı!
That’s incredible!
Eva, you’ve gotta shoot this.
To encounter that here...
while we are talking about Gezi.
I want to be in the picture, too!
Am I in it?
Of course you’re in it!
I want a picture as well.
-Isn’t that nice!
-Very nice!
They’re all our friends.
The leaders of Çarşı!
And if Çarşı hadn’t been in Gezi...
Gezi would never have been as successful as it was.
...50 30 5
We are now calling the leader of Çarşı.
Cem, brother!
I am well, brother.
How are you?
Guess what happened!
We were walking, walking, walking...
and suddenly we saw the flag of Çarşı.
Here, brother!
Yes, really.
How could that be?
Who hung it up here?
Is there a Çarşı Berlin?
There is.
Çarşı Berlin must have done that.
Oh right, there’s someone sitting next to me.
Tell him that we’re in Tempelhof.
If you want, you can talk to him...
After we buried my dad
I left the country.
There was an arrest warrant and complaints to the police.
You know these things yourself.
I can’t work there anymore,
they won’t let me work.
That’s why I left.
At the moment I’m here.
I always had trouble with the police there
and that’s why I’m not coming back.
The truth is, I can’t come back.
The Gezi protests showed that
when we act together,
the state is confronted with an invincible force.
It was a new experience for the young generation.
And we experienced them in a new way.
The young people were saying:
You thought we were apolitical.
But we’re not apolitical,
you just didn’t understand our politics.
And they were completely right.
We realised that their generation doesn’t just
think locally.
Exactly.
But maybe they want to live freely, like the Amazons.
We don’t know that.
That would be great. In my opinion
the world will be saved by Amazons.
We need oestrogen.
We need a giant oestrogen pump
in order to save the world.
I agree from the bottom of my heart.
Exactly: Amazons!
We really have to
make a film about Gezi.
But is that even possible?
You could shoot it here.